On the day following Donald Trump’s inauguration, I attended a large protest that my friends on Facebook had invited me to. I felt obligated to participate in the event because I harbored a sense of guilt for not being more active during the preceding election. My plan was to make the 13-mile trip to downtown with an Uber, but prices on the morning of the protest were surging at around $120 - $180. I instead opted to catch one of the many buses that traverse Los Angeles’s arterial boulevards.

While I waited for the bus, my first encounter with a fellow protest-goer took place. An industry-looking type walked over to me and sheepishly inquired about the bus fare. I wondered momentarily why the man had chosen me as his target - but after taking stock of our demographic microcosm I easily deduced the answer. Apparently, I, too, was supposed to share in his sense of displacement. Nevertheless, I told him what I believed the standard fare to be and - without a word of gratitude - the man turned away to begin digging in his pockets for the correct change. A young mother who was heading to the protest with her child overheard me and began loudly complaining about the bus’s tardiness. I could tell that she was looking for an ally but I found it difficult to indulge her neuroticism. I assured her that the bus would arrive in due time - as it always does - but my reassurance was worthless as she stomped out into the middle of the street in search of the bus somewhere on the horizon. A young homeless man who was dozing on the bench directly behind us was visibly jolted each time the woman exclaimed something.

Eventually, an empty bus arrived and we paid our fare to hop on. Over the course of the next hour, a predictable flow of additional protest-goers and regulars trickled onto the bus. As we got further away from my neighborhood by the beach, groups of protest-goers gave way to housekeepers and construction workers, homeless men, and old Korean ladies with push baskets. These ‘other’ folks were not adorned with pink hats and oversized poster board, but rather with the tools of working class people. The incongruence between our two agendas for the day could not have been more blatant.

The point at which our bus unmistakably crossed the bleeding-edge of Los Angeles’s gentrification settlements, several protest-goers around me could be heard raising concerns about where the correct stop would be. The regulars seemed look-on with a sense amusement as the crowd of ‘others’ oriented itself. The less concerned among the protest-goers had conversations with each other about what an unthinkable reality it was now that Donald Trump had won the presidency. In all such instances, a clear consensus emerged that no one could bear living under his divisive administration.

The energy on the bus heightened considerably when helicopters could be spotted weaving around skyscrapers in the distance. People pulled out their smartphones and readied their signs for action. Pockets of laughter erupted every time a different person uncovered his or her political statement for the day. Then, like a herd of sheep, the entire lot of us got off at one particular stop and flowed in the direction of the large crowd across the street. As I made way into the thick of things, I found it increasingly difficult to move forward. There was an unusual current flowing in the crowd. Individual protesters ceased moving in unpredictable moments in order to take pictures of themselves and others around them. It felt like an intrusion to stumble into anyone else’s frame unprompted, yet it was difficult to avoid. Throughout the day I heard echoes from a PA system that I somehow never quite reached. It felt as though the lack of an organized march was actually an intentional feature.

I stumbled into an area filled with lines of tents and portable potties. Many of the tents were occupied by political organizations eagerly handing out pamphlets. I could not bring myself to accept any of them because I had already noticed that the surrounding waste bins were too full for any additional contributions. As I made my way through that section, my attention was caught by one particularly long line. I was unsurprised to find that the head of the line pointed to a hip-looking coffee shop known for its top-shelf beans and elite price point.

At a certain point, I decided it was time to recede from the crowd in search of cellular service. I felt the need to evaluate the day’s events from the familiar vantage point of my Facebook feed. I walked away from the crowd and found a sunny street corner with a cafe and an outdoor seating area. I leaned against a nearby wall and checked for for a signal. While pouring over my social media, I was distracted by a woman yelling obscenities. I looked up and saw a mentally disabled lady flailing her arms at some protesters inside the cafe. She displayed a remarkable sense of urgency that stood in stark contrast to the flurry of activity happening just blocks away. Some of the people inside the cafe were pointing their smartphones at the homeless woman in order to capture her wild antics. Little did they know that this was the most meaningful moment of 1.21.17.
